Hi again!
In this section, we'll discuss how
incident response teams manage incidents.
You may have been part of a team before.
Whether it was a sports team, or
a team in the workplace or at school,
teams are most successful when everyone
uses their diverse strengths to work
towards a common goal.
Incident response teams
aren't any different.
A successful response to security
incidents doesn't happen in isolation.
It requires a team of both security and
non-security professionals working
together with defined roles.
Computer security incident response teams,
or CSIRTs, are a specialized group of
security professionals that are trained
in incident management and response.
The goal of CSIRTs are to effectively and
efficiently manage incidents,
provide services and resources for
response and recovery, and
prevent future incidents from occurring.
Security is a shared responsibility, which
is why CSIRTs must work cross functionally
with other departments to
share relevant information.
For example, if an incident resulted
in the breach of sensitive data,
like financial documents or PII,
then the legal team must be consulted.
Some regulatory compliance measures may
require organizations to publicly disclose
a security incident within
a certain timeframe.
This means that CSIRTs must collaborate
with the organization's public relations
team to coordinate efforts for
public disclosure.
So how exactly does a CSIRT function?
First, there's the security analyst.
The analyst's job is to investigate security
alerts to determine if an incident
has occurred.
If an incident has been detected,
the analyst will determine
the criticality rating of the incident.
Some incidents can be easily
remediated by the security analyst and
don't require escalation.
But if the incident is highly critical,
it gets escalated to the technical lead,
who provides technical leadership by
guiding security incidents
through their lifecycle.
During this time, the incident coordinator
tracks and manages the activities of
the CSIRT and other teams
involved in the response effort.
Their job is to ensure that incident
response processes are followed and
that teams are regularly
updated on the incident status.
Not all CSIRTs are the same.
Depending on the organization, a CSIRT
can also be referred to as an Incident
Handling Team, or IHT, or
Security Incident Response Team, SIRT.
Depending on an organization's structure,
some teams can also have a broader or
specialized focus.
For example, some teams may be solely
dedicated to crisis management and
others may be incorporated with a SOC.
Roles can have different names too.
For example,
a technical lead can also
be known as an Ops lead.
Regardless of the team's title or
focus, they all share the same goal:
incident management and response.
Now that you know a bit about incident
response teams, we'll continue to learn
about how incident response teams plan,
organize, and respond to incidents.
I'll meet you in the next video.